The results of our extended model allowing for heterogenous effects of
PTAs is shown in Table 8 through Table 12. Africa in table 8 only has
effects for South-South PTAs and again has no statistically significant
effect for any PTA. Americas in Table 9 has five PTAs with North-South
estimates, one of which has statistically significant and negative
effects for NS PTA + Lag and statistically significant and positive
effects for SS PTA + Lag. Of the remaining four, none have estimates for
SS PTA + Lag, three are statistically significant and positive, and one
is not statistically significant. It has eight PTAs with South-South
estimates, seven of which have statistically significant and positive
effects, while one does not have statistically significant effects.
Americas does not have any coefficients for North-North. Asia in Table
10 has two PTAs with North-South estimates, one of which is
statistically significant and positive, while the other is not
statistically significant. It has nineteen PTAs with South-South
estimates, seven of which have statistically significant and positive
effects, four have statistically significant and negative coefficients,
and eight does not have statistically significant effects. Asia does not
have any coefficients for North-North. Europe in Table 11 has eight PTA
North-South estimates, five of which are statistically significant and
positive, and the others are not statistically significant. One of the
five agreements with statistically significant and positive coefficients
for NS PTA + Lag also has a statistically significant and positive
coefficient for SS PTA + Lag. None of the other agreements with a NS
coefficient have statistically significant coefficients for SS. It has
nineteen South-South estimates, thirteen are statistically significant
and positive, one is statistically significant and negative, and five
are not significant. Finally, the region has one agreement with a
North-North estimate, which also has a North-South and a South-South
estimate and they are all statistically significant and positive.
Intercontinental in Table 12 has thirty PTA North-South estimates, of
which twelve are statistically significant and positive, fifteen are not
statistically significant, and three are statistically significant and
negative for NS PTA + Lag. None of these PTAs also have coefficients for
SS PTA + Lag of which five are statistically significant and positive,
three are not statistically significant, and one is statistically
significant and negative. It has twenty-one estimates for South-South,
of which fourteen are statistically significant and positive, five are
not statistically significant, and two are statistically significant and
negative. It has three agreements with North-North estimates, two
statistically significant and positive, and one are not statistically
significant. Across the regions and PTAs, 23 out of 47 (48.94\%) NS
coefficients have significant and positive effects, 20 out of 47
(42.55\%) have no significant effects, and 4 out of 47 (8.51\%) have
significand and negative effects; 49 out of 84 (58.33\%) SS coefficients
have significant and positive effects, 27 out of 84 (32.14\%) have no
significant effects, and 8 out of 84 (9.52\%) have significand and
negative effects; and, 3 out of 4 (75\%) NN coefficients have
significant and positive effects, 1 out of 4 (25\%) have no significant
effects, and none have significand and negative effects.
